<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Analysis</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="analysis-css.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div>
        <h1>The Aeneid in Translation</h1>
        <h2>Analysis</h2>
            <!--#include virtual="toc.xhtml" -->
        </div>
        <p>     There were very clear syntactic differences present in the different translations we studied. Latin was by far the most concise version of the story, while the other languages needed to add extra words in order to communicate the same semantic meaning. The other languages—Spanish, English, and German—all tended to be significantly longer by about 50-100 words, depending on the section. English, in particular, stood out as verbose; for example, it was a full 169 words longer in the excerpt from the fourth book than the Latin, with Spanish following at 119 extra words, and then German with 104 more. We noticed a wealth of archaic language and grammar in all translations, which was a nice edition of translators to be accurate to the original, as Vergil actually wrote The Aeneid in a formal and archaic style, even for his time. There were evident differences in translation style at a glance as well; the Spanish and Latin versions tended to have very short lines, while the German translator seemed to favor longer lines. </p>
        <p>     Interestingly, our prediction of somewhat consistent sound devices across translations was proved incorrect. While the English translation seemed to incorporate a deliberate number of sound devices, the Spanish translation used even fewer, and the German translation, almost none. The original Latin contained a large quantity of sound devices, which certainly were key in the original, especially in conjunction with its iambic pentameter meter, as the Aeneid could then be read and performed. Modern translations of the Aeneid rarely become oral performances, so this could account for the lack of attention to sound. </p>
        <p>     In contrast, our expectation of changing tenses held true. Of course, tenses had to change, as each language uses different tenses. For example, while Latin and Spanish have a wide range of different tenses, English only uses three: past, present, and future. For example, the excerpt from the first book was mostly written in present tense in Latin. The use of present tense adds to the sense of drama in Aeneas’ speech, because the readers can be drawn into the scene as if it is happening around them, with actual stakes. While the Spanish translator kept the scene in present, English and German translators changed the majority of the scene into past tense, thus affecting the actual scene itself by making it sound definite to readers, as if it has already occurred. This change in tense affects the role of the reader by creating a boundary of time between the reader and the story. The Spanish translation, interestingly, tended to stay true to the Latin more than the others, at least in terms of verbs—this can be attributed to the similar range of tenses in Spanish and Latin, while German and English are forced to simplify.</p>
        <p>     It is important to note that our analysis is based only on our own markup, which was divided between the three of us, and could possibly contain several inconsistencies in style. They were not cross-referenced or checked thoroughly, due to time. Thus, this analysis cannot be definitive, but regardless of the possibility of some errors, we feel like we have gained a strong sense of each of these translations and are able to discuss our observations from them</p>
    </body>
</html>